Recipe : lauki paratha recipe

 INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)  2 cups grated lauki/dudhi/opo squash, 125 to 150 grams lauki or half of a medium sized lauki 1 or 2 green chilies, finely chopped or ½ tsp red chili powder a pinch of asafoetida/hing ½ tsp garam masala powder ½ tsp carom seeds/ajwain 2 cups whole wheat flour/atta 1 tbsp oil salt as required ghee or oil as required for roasting parathas   

 INSTRUCTIONS  rinse, peel and then grate lauki in a tray or bowl. add 1 tsp finely chopped green chilies, ½ tsp garam masala powder and ½ tsp carom seeds/ajwain and salt as required. substitute ½ tsp red chili powder if you do not have green chilies. mix everything very well. then add 2 cups whole wheat flour and 1 tbsp oil. first mix the the flour with the rest of the mixture. start gathering the mixture and kneading to a smooth dough. don't add any water while kneading. the juices from the lauki is enough to knead. in case the dough becomes sticky, then add some more flour and knead again. take a small to mediums sized ball from the dough. place it in a tray or box containing whole wheat flour. take the dough ball on the rolling board and begin to roll it with a rolling pin. while rolling, dust some more flour if required. roll to a small or medium sized paratha with a rolling pin. place the rolled lauki paratha on a hot tava or griddle. when one side is partly cooked (about ¼th) then flip it. spread some oil or ghee on the partly cooked side. flip again and spread some oil or ghee on the second side. flip again a couple of times. also while roasting press the sides of the lauki paratha so that the edges are cooked well. roast till the lauki paratha is cooked well and you see some golden or brown spots on the paratha. you can serve these parathas hot or stack them up in a roti basket or casserole and later serve warm. make all lauki parathas this way. serve lauki paratha with plain curd/yogurt (plain or sweetened with some sugar) or some raita like carrot raita, beetroot raita or makhana raita.   

