Recipe : arachuvitta sambar recipe

 INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml) for pressure cooking dal:  ½ cup tuvar dal/arhar dal/pigeon pea lentils, 110 grams 2 cups water for pressure cooking ¼ tsp turmeric/haldi ½ tsp oil (optional)  cooking veggies:  2 drumsticks 250 grams ash gourd/white pumpkin, about 1 cup of diced ash gourd 1 medium to large carrot 3-4 shallots or 1 medium sized onions OR about 1.5 cups diced veggies except drumsticks 2 tbsp sesame oil 1 tsp mustard seeds 2 dry red chilies 1 sprig curry leaves or 12 to 15 curry leaves a pinch of asafoetida/hing 1 cup water (added ½ cup water later) ¼ tsp turmeric powder 1 tsp salt  sambar masala:  4-5 dry red chillies 1 tbsp coriander seeds ¼ tsp methi seeds/fenugreek seeds 1 tsp chana dal/husked & split bengal gram ½ tsp whole black pepper 2 tsp sesame oil 4 tbsp fresh grated coconut 5 to 6 tbsp water for grinding  for tamarind pulp  1.5 tbsp tightly packed seedless tamarind + ½ cup hot water   

 INSTRUCTIONS pressure cooking lentils:  first rinse ½ cup arhar dal/tuvar or pigeon pea lentils and add them in the pressure cooker. also add ¼ tsp turmeric powder and 2 cups water. stir well and pressure cook the lentils for 8 to 9 whistles. when the pressure settles down on its own, open the lid of the cooker and mash the dal with a wired whisk or spoon.  preparing tamarind pulp:  meanwhile while the lentils are getting pressure cooked, in a small bowl take ½ cup hot water and 1.5 tbsp tightly packed tamarind. soak the tamarind in hot water for about 20 to 30 minutes. later squeeze the pulp from the tamarind in the bowl. keep aside.  roasting spices & preparing sambar masala:  next in a small pan, heat 2 tsp sesame oil (not the asian variety of sesame oil). add 4-5 dry red chillies, 1 tbsp coriander seeds, ¼ tsp methi seeds/fenugreek seeds, 1 tsp chana dal and ½ tsp black pepper. on a low flame stir and roast the spices. when the spices become fragrant switch off the flame and keep the pan down. allow the roasted spices to become warm or cool down. take the roasted spices in a chutney grinder or a wet grinder jar. also add 4 tbsp coconut. grind to a smooth paste with 5 to 6 tbsp water. add more water if required while grinding. keep this ground sambar masala aside.  cooking veggies and preparing sambar:  next step is to heat 2 tbsp sesame oil in a pot or pan. then add 1 tsp mustard seeds and let them crackle. once the mustard seeds crackle, then add 2 dry red chilies and a pinch of asafoetida. stir and saute till the red chilies change color. don't burn them. now add 1 sprig curry leaves (about 12 to 15 curry leaves) and 2 drumsticks (chopped), 1 cup of diced ash gourd and 1 medium to large carrot (diced). if you plan to add pearl onions or regular onions, then saute them with curry leaves till they turn translucent. add the mix veggies later once you saute the onions. stir very well. add the tamarind pulp and ¼ tsp turmeric powder to the veggies. stir. tamarind pulp can be added later too, if you don't want the sour taste in the veggies. next add 1 cup water. add 1 tsp salt or as per taste. do check while the veggies are cooking and if required add some water if the water becomes less. i added ½ cup water later. cover the pan and simmer on a medium to high flame till the veggies are cooked. in 20 to 25 minutes, the veggies will be cooked. then add the mashed dal and the freshly ground sambar masala. stir very well. if the sambar looks very thick, then add some more water. if thin, then add 1 to 2 tbsp rice flour to thicken it. simmer more for 4 to 5 minutes on a medium to high flame. you can serve arachuvitta sambar with steamed rice or idli, dosa or any south indian tiffin snack. if you want you can also garnish arachuvitta sambar with some chopped coriander leaves.   

