Recipe : masala vada recipe

 INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml) to be ground:  ½ cup chana dal/husked and split bengal gram 1 dry red chili, deseeded and halved 1 tsp fennel seeds ½ tsp coriander seeds ¼ tsp black pepper  to be added to the ground lentils later:  1 small onion, chopped or ¼ cup chopped onion 1 green chili, chopped or 1 tsp chopped green chilies ½ inch ginger, finely chopped or 1 tsp chopped ginger 9 to 10 curry leaves/kadi patta, finely chopped 2 to 3 tbsp chopped coriander leaves/dhania patta a pinch of asafoetida/hing salt as required  other ingredients:  oil for frying water for soaking chana dal, as required   

 INSTRUCTIONS prepping:  rinse the chana dal for a couple of times in water. then soak in enough water for 3 to 4 hours. for a quicker option, you can heat water and the soak the chana dal for an hour. later, in a grinder, add the following whole spices - 1 dry red chili, deseeded and halved, 1 tsp fennel seeds, ½ tsp coriander seeds and ¼ tsp black pepper. grind the spices coarsely. drain the soaked chana dal very well. then add the chana dal to the grinder. grind the dal coarsely. some whole chana dal should be there. no need to add water while grinding. i did not add any water. if you add water, then it becomes difficult to shape the vadais. if you are not able to grind at all, then add 1 to 2 tbsp water and grind. scrape and remove the ground dal in a mixing bowl. add ¼ cup chopped onion, 1 tsp chopped green chilies, 1 tsp chopped ginger, 8 to 10 curry leaves, finely chopped, 2 to 3 tbsp chopped coriander leaves and a pinch of asafoetida and salt as per taste. mix very well.  shaping and frying:  shape to medium sized vadas. make medium sized balls and then flatten them. if not able to shape vadais, then add 1 or 2 tbsp of rice flour. heat oil for deep frying in a kadai or pan. on a medium flame heat the oil. check the oil temperature by dropping a small portion of the batter in the oil. if the small vada comes up steadily, the oil is hot enough for frying. now carefully slid the vadas in the hot oil. fry them for a couple of minutes and then turn over with a slotted spoon and fry the other side. fry till the vadas become golden and crisp. drain them on kitchen paper towels. serve the masala vadai hot tomato ketchup or with coconut chutney.   

